doc: Add Azure CNI Powered by cilium as external installer (#28286)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/installation/k8s-install-aks.rst

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _aks_install:

> *****************************************************
> Installation using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium in AKS
> *****************************************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*****************************************************
Installation using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium in AKS
*****************************************************

```

Author: @qmonnet sorry, what's the change here.?

Author: oh empty line. nvm

Reviewer: Yep, not a strong requirement but I personally prefer when we have a blank line between the title and the text body.

> This guide walks you through installation of Cilium on AKS (Azure Kubernetes Service) via 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through the installation of Cilium on AKS (Azure Kubernetes Service) via 
```

Azure Container Network Interface (CNI) Powered by Cilium option

> <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `Azure Container Network Interface (CNI) Powered by Cilium
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium>`__ option.
```

> Create the cluster
> ==================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the cluster
==================

```

Azure CNI Powered by Cilium AKS cluster must be created with ``network-plugin azure`` and 

> ``--network-dataplane cilium``. Cluster can be created either in the ``podsubnet`` or ``overlay`` mode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an Azure CNI Powered by Cilium AKS cluster with ``network-plugin azure`` and 
``--network-dataplane cilium``. You can create the cluster either in ``podsubnet`` or ``overlay`` mode. 
```

In both modes, traffic will be routed through the Azure Virtual Network Stack. The choice between these 
modes are dependent upon specific use case and requirements of the cluster. Follow this page to know more 

> about these two modes `<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-overlay#choosing-a-network-model-to-use>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modes depends on the specific use case and requirements of the cluster. Refer to `the related documentation <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-overlay#choosing-a-network-model-to-use>`__  to know more about these two modes.
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

.. tabs::
  

>   .. group-tab:: Overlay
>     .. code-block:: shell-session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. group-tab:: Overlay
  
    .. code-block:: shell-session
```

        az aks create -n <clusterName> -g <resourceGroupName> -l <location> \
        --network-plugin azure \
        --network-dataplane cilium \
        --network-plugin-mode overlay \
        --pod-cidr 192.168.0.0/16

    Follow this link for detailed instructions from scratch 

>     `<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#create-a-new-aks-cluster-with-azure-cni-powered-by-cilium>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    See also `the detailed instructions from scratch 
    <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#create-a-new-aks-cluster-with-azure-cni-powered-by-cilium>`__.
```

  .. group-tab:: Podsubnet
    
    .. code-block:: shell-session

        az aks create -n <clusterName> -g <resourceGroupName> -l <location> \
        --network-plugin azure \
        --network-dataplane cilium \
        --vnet-subnet-id /subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/resourceGroups/<resourceGroupName>/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/<vnetName>/subnets/nodesubnet \
        --pod-subnet-id /subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/resourceGroups/<resourceGroupName>/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/<vnetName>/subnets/podsubnet 

    Follow this link for detailed instructions from scratch

>     `<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-2-assign-ip-addresses-from-a-virtual-network>`_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    See also `the detailed instructions from scratch
    <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-2-assign-ip-addresses-from-a-virtual-network>`_. 
```

>     `<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-2-assign-ip-addresses-from-an-overlay-network>`_. 

Reviewer 2: Should the link be this ?
```suggestion
    `<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-2-assign-ip-addresses-from-a-virtual-network>`_. 
```

    
.. include:: k8s-install-validate.rst

> Delegated Azure IPAM
> ====================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delegated Azure IPAM
====================

```

> Delegated Azure IPAM (IP Address Manager) manages the IP allocation for pods created in Azure CNI Powered by Cilium cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delegated Azure IPAM (IP Address Manager) manages the IP allocation for pods created in Azure CNI Powered by Cilium clusters.
```

It assigns IPs that are routable in Azure Virtual Network stack. To know more about Delegated Azure Ipam, 

> follow this page :ref:`azure_delegated_ipam`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It assigns IPs that are routable in Azure Virtual Network stack. To know more about the Delegated Azure IPAM, 
see :ref:`azure_delegated_ipam`.
```

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _aks_install:

*****************************************************
Installation using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium in AKS
*****************************************************

This guide walks you through the installation of Cilium on AKS (Azure Kubernetes Service) via 
the `Azure Container Network Interface (CNI) Powered by Cilium
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium>`__ option.

Create the cluster
==================

Create an Azure CNI Powered by Cilium AKS cluster with ``network-plugin azure`` and 
``--network-dataplane cilium``. You can create the cluster either in ``podsubnet`` or ``overlay`` mode. 

> In both modes, traffic will be routed through the Azure Virtual Network Stack. The choice between these 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both modes, traffic is routed through the Azure Virtual Network Stack. The choice between these 
```

> modes depends on the specific use case and requirements of the cluster. Refer to `the related documentation <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-overlay#choosing-a-network-model-to-use>`__  to know more about these two modes.
> .. tabs::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modes depends on the specific use case and requirements of the cluster. Refer to `the related documentation <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-overlay#choosing-a-network-model-to-use>`__  to know more about these two modes.

.. tabs::
```

The new line is required here. For non-trivial doc changes, please take a look at [the Netlify preview](https://deploy-preview-28286--docs-cilium-io.netlify.app/installation/k8s-install-aks) to validate that the rendered version corresponds to your expectations. Currently, it looks like this:

![image](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/assets/17001771/eec894e0-d36b-4765-a7df-d181c880a998)

Author: how did you get this link? I like to check this before turning my PR from draft to ready

Author: nvm, i found where to get it. Thanks for pointing out, i will check all my changes in preview

  
  .. group-tab:: Overlay
  
    .. code-block:: shell-session

        az aks create -n <clusterName> -g <resourceGroupName> -l <location> \
        --network-plugin azure \
        --network-dataplane cilium \
        --network-plugin-mode overlay \
        --pod-cidr 192.168.0.0/16

    See also `the detailed instructions from scratch 

>     <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#create-a-new-aks-cluster-with-azure-cni-powered-by-cilium>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-1-assign-ip-addresses-from-an-overlay-network>`__.
```

For consistency with the link in the other tab?

        --network-plugin azure \
        --network-dataplane cilium \
        --network-plugin-mode overlay \
        --pod-cidr 192.168.0.0/16

    See also `the detailed instructions from scratch 
    <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-1-assign-ip-addresses-from-an-overlay-network>`__.

  .. group-tab:: Podsubnet
    
    .. code-block:: shell-session

        az aks create -n <clusterName> -g <resourceGroupName> -l <location> \
        --network-plugin azure \
        --network-dataplane cilium \
        --vnet-subnet-id /subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/resourceGroups/<resourceGroupName>/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/<vnetName>/subnets/nodesubnet \
        --pod-subnet-id /subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/resourceGroups/<resourceGroupName>/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/<vnetName>/subnets/podsubnet 

    See also `the detailed instructions from scratch
    <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-2-assign-ip-addresses-from-a-virtual-network>`_. 
    
.. include:: k8s-install-validate.rst

Delegated Azure IPAM
====================

> Delegated Azure IPAM (IP Address Manager) manages the IP allocation for pods created in Azure CNI Powered by Cilium clusters.

Reviewer 3: hi @tamilmani1989 , I have a few of questions about the Delegated Azure IPAM mode. Could you please help me with them?

- Does the azure ipam will create multiple network interfaces for Pods like how aws ENI mode works?
- If there're multile ENIs, is the azure IPAM compoment responsible for install egress routes for Pods to redirect traffic to right network interface?
